.>> Brown: AS FAMILIES OF
VICTIMS OF THE NEWTOWN SHOOTING
LOOKED ON, CONGRESS MOVED ONE
STEP CLOSER TO A VOTE ON A
COMPREHENSIVE GUNS BILL.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE GET
THE LATEST FROM CAPITOL HILL AS
SENATORS KICK OFF AN EXTENDED
PERIOD OF DEBATE OVER GUN
LEGISLATION.
>> Brn: TowHEN, MEDICARE AND
SOCIAL SECURITY FACE CHANGES IN
THE PRESIDENT'S NEW BUDGET.
WE DEBATE THE POTENTIAL IMPACT.
>> Woodruff: EDUCATION
CORRESPONDENT JOHN MERROW
REPORTS ON A RISE IN HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION RATES, BUT THE
NUMBERS RAISE QUESTIONS AND
EDUCATORS SEARCH FOR NEW WAYS TO
INSPIRE KIDS TO SUCCEED.
>> FOR KIDS TO BELIEVE SCHOOL IS
GOING TO LEAD THEM SOMEWHERE YOU
HAVE TO HAVE REALLY STRONG
PATHWAYS TO ADULT SUCCESS, SO
SOME COULD LEAD THE COLLEGE,
SOME COULD LEAD TO REALLY SOLID
JOB TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES THAT
LEAD TO A JOB.
>> Brown: WE LOOK AT A CLINICAL
TRIAL DESIGNED TO STUDY
PREMATURE BABIES, BUT THAT
ALLEGEDLY FAILED TO DISCLOSE
RISKS OF DEATH AND BLINDNESS.
>> Woodruff: RAY SUAREZ TALKS TO
THE AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK THAT
TRACKS THE HISTORY OF POLITICAL
POWER AS IT BECOMES HARDER TO
USE AND EVEN HARDER TO KEEP.
>> WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF
DEMOCRACIES ARE CHOKING IN
CHECKS AND BALANCES.
THEREFORE TOO MANY CONSTRAINTS
THAT DON'T LET GOVERNMENTS
GOVERN.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH THE
STORY OF AN ARMY CHAPLAIN WHO
RECEIVED THE MEDAL OF HONOR
TODAY, MORE THAN 60 YEARS AFTER
HEDIED  A PRISONER IN THE KOREAN
WAR.
THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON TONIGHT'S
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE FULL U.S.
SENATE OFFICIALLY TOOK UP GUN
CONTROL TODAY.
SUPPORTERS SWEPT ASIDE A
PROCEDURAL HURDLE AND BEGAN
WHAT IS LIKELY TO BE A LONG
STRUGGLE TO CRAFT A FINAL BILL.
>> THE HARD WORK STARTS NOW.
>> Woodruff: SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID, SPEAKING
MOMENTS AFTER SENATORS REJECTED
EFFORTS TO PREVENT DEBATE ON NEW
GUN LEGISLATION.
IT REQUIRED AT LEAST 60 VOTES,
AND THE FINAL MARGIN EASILY
EXCEEDED THAT.
>> ON THIS VOTE, THE YEAS ARE
68, THE NAYS ARE 31.
>> Woodruff: 16 REPUBLICANS
JOINED ALL BUT TWO DEMOCRATS IN
THE MAJORITY.
REID HAD ACKNOWLEDGED POWERFUL
FEELINGS ON BOTH SIDES.
STILL, HE SAID:
BUT>> WHICHEVER SIDE YOU ARE
ON, WE OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO AGREE
TO ENGAGE IN A THOUGHTFUL DEBATE
ABOUT THESE MEASURES.
LET'S ENGAGE IN IT.
>> Woodruff: THE MEASURES WILL
INCLUDE A COMPROMISE ON FEDERAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR WOULD-BE
GUN BUYERS.
PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN PAT
TOOMEY AND WEST VIRGINIA
DEMOCRAT JOE MANCHIN WORKED OUT
LANGUAGE YESTERDAY TO EXPAND ETH
CHECKS TO FIREARMS SALES AT GUN
SHOWS AND ONLINE.
THERE COULD ALSO BE PROPOSALS ON
BANNING ASSAULT WEAPONS AND
RESTRICTING HIGH CAPACITY
MAGAZINES, AMONG OTHER MEASURES.
BUT A MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS
TODAY, INCLUDING SENATOR JOHN
CORNYN OF TEXAS, SAID IT'S
POINTLESS TO DEBATE "SYMBOLIC
GESTURES."
>> I'M NOT GOING TO VOTE TO
PROCEED TO A BILL THAT HAS NOT
YET BEEN WRITTEN, NO MATTER HOW
WELL INTENTIONED IT MAY BE.
RATHER THAN PUT ON A SHOW AND
PAT OURSELVES ON THE BACK AND
CALL IT A DAY, LET'S DO
SOMETHING GOOD TO MAKE SURE
WE'VE DONE EVERYTHING IN OUR
HUMAN CAPACITY TO PREVENT
ANOTHER SANDY HOOK.
>> Woodruff: AND SENATE MINORITY
LEADER MITCH McCONNELL SAID THE
PROPOSALS THAT DEMOCRATS ARE
PUSHING WOULD VIOLATE SECOND
AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
>> I BELIEVE THE GOVERNMENT
SHOULD FOCUS ON KEEPING FIREARMS
OUT OF THE HANDS OF CRIMINALS
AND THOSE WITH MENTAL ISSUES
THAT COULD CAUSE THEM TO BE A
THREAT TO OUR SOCIETY.
THIS BILL IS A CLEAR OVERREACH
THAT WILL PREDOMINANTLY PUNISH
AND HARASS OUR NEIGHBORS,
OUR FRIENDS AND OUR FAMILY.
>> Woodruff: VERMONT DEMOCRAT
PATRICK LEAHY FIRED BACK THAT
SUCH AUMENRGTS WERE OVERBLOWN.
>> SENATORS SHOULD UNDERSTAND
WHAT IS IN THIS BILL THE SMALL
MINORITY OF REPUBLICANS ARE
SEEKING TO PREVENT THE SENATE
FROM EVEN CONSIDERING.
THE BILL HAS THREE PARTS.
NONE OF THEM THREATEN SECOND
AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
NONE OF THEM CALL FOR GUN
CONFISCATION OR A GUN...
GOVERNMENT REGISY.TR
>> Woodruff: IN THE END, GUN
CONTROL ADVOCATES ACKNOWLEDGED
THAT TODAY'S SENATE OUTCOME DOES
NOT GUARANTEE ULTIMATE SUCCESS.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, SPOKESMAN
JAY CARNEY CALLED IT A IRST"F
STAGE."
>> THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
MILESTONE, BUT IT IS A EARLY
MILESTONE.
AND THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT
CHALLENGES WILL CONTINUE TO BE
PLACED IN THE WAY OF MAKING
PROGRESS ON PASSING COMMONSENSE
SL
GUN VIOLENCE, BUT WE ARE
OBVIOUSLY VERY PLEASED WITH
TODAY'S VOTE.
>> Woodruff: CARNEY ALSO SAID
THAT, AFTER THE VOTE, PRESIDENT
OBAMA TELEPHONED FAMILIES OF
SEVERAL CHILDREN KILLED IN THE
NEWTOWN SCHOOL SHOOTINGS.
SOME OF THEM HAD BEEN LOBBYING
SENATORS ALL WEEK TO TAKE UP THE
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION.
NOW, DEBATE BEGINS IN EARNEST.
BUT ANY FINAL VOTE COULD TAKE
WEEKS.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR: TAKING ON SOCIAL
SECURITY AND MEDICARE; A RISE IN
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION RATES;
QUESTIONS ABOUT A CLINICAL TRIAL
INVOLVING INFANTS; THE CHALLENGE
OF KEEPING POLITICAL POWER; AND
THE STORY OF A HEROIC WARTIME
PRIEST.
FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
Y.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: A BIPARTISAN
GROUP OF SENATORS WRAPPED UP
WORK TODAY ON THE MAJOR ELEMENTS
OF AN IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL.
THAT CAME AFTER THEY AGREED ON A
NEW FARM WORKER PROGRAM AND
VISAS FOR HIGH-TECH WORKERS.
THE BROADER BILL AIMS TO IMPROVE
BORDER SECURITY AND PUT 11
MILLION PEOPLE ON A PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP.
IT COULD BE INTRODUCED ON
TUESDAY, ONCE SENATE STAFFERS
COMPLETE DRAFTS OF THE
LEGISLATION.
A WIDE SWATH OF SEVERE WEATHER
HAS MOVED EASTWARD, ALREADY
BLAMED FOR KILLING AT LEAST TWO
PEOPLE.
THE SYSTEM STRETCHED ALL THE WAY
FROM TEXAS TO MICHIGAN AND
BROUGHT EVERYTHING FROM
TORNADOES TO ICE AND SNOW.
AT LEAST ONE LARGE FUNNEL CLOUD
RIPPED THROUGH EASTERN
MISSISSIPPI TODAY.
AUTHORITIES REPORTED ONE DEATH
AND NUMEROUS INJURIES AND
DAMAGE.
LAST NIGHT, MULTIPLE TWISTERS
STRUCK IN EASTERN MISSOURI,
DAMAGING DOZENS OF HOMES AND A
CHURCH.
TODAY, GOVERNOR JAY NIXON TOURED
THE SCENE.
>> HOMES WERE DESTROYED.
LIVES WERE CHANGED FOREVER.
WHEN YOU'RE IN SITUATIONS LIKE
THIS AND IN A FEW SHORT MINUTES
THE INDISCRIMINATE NATURE OF
MOTHER NATURE PUTS TORNADOS AND
HIGH WINDS THROUGH YOUR AREA AND
YOUR HOMES WILL NEVER BE THE
SAME.
MANY PEOPLE HOMELESS, OBVIOUSLY
SHELTERS HAD A NUMBER OF FOLKS
STAYED AWAY LAST NIGHT.
FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS HAVE BEEN
INJURED.
IT'S VERY TRAUMATIC AND IT'S
IMPORTANT EVERYBODY STAY CALM.
>> Sreenivasan: IN MINNESOTA AND
SOUTH DAKOTA, THOUSANDS OF HOMES
AND BUSINESSES HAD NO POWER
TODAY AFTER HEAVY SNOW AND ICE
PULLED POWER LINES DOWN LINES.
MINNESOTA GOVERNOR MARK DAYTON
CALLED OUT THE NATIONAL GUARD TO
HELP CLEAN UP.
THAT WORD CAME TODAY IN A
DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ASSESSMENT MADE PUBLIC AT A
HOUSE HEARING.
LATER PRESIDENT OBAMA WEIGHED IN
ON THE RISING TENSIONS WITH
HE MET WITH U.N. SECRETARY-
GENERAL BAN KI-MOON AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AND URGED THE NORTH TO
DIAL BACK ON ITS WAR TALK.
>> WE BOTH AGREE THAT NOW'S THE
TIME FOR NORTH KOREA TO END THE
KIND OF BELLIGERENT APPROACHTHAY
TO LOWER TEMPERATURES.
NO ONE WANTS TO SEE A CONFLICT
ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT
SAID THE U.S. WILL WORK
DIPLOMATICALLY TO REDUCE THE
TENSION AND SECRETARY JOHN KERRY
HEADS TO EAST ASIA PLANNING
TALKS WITH LEADERS OF SOUTH
KOREA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
KERRY AND OTHER G8 FOREIGN
MINISTERS MET IN LONDON TODAY,
BUT THEY FAILED TO AGREE ON
ARMING THE REBELS IN SYRIA.
THEY CRITICIZED THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT'S USE OF HEAVY
WEAPONS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS,
BUT THEY WENT NO FURTHER.
BRITAIN AND FRANCE HAVE PUSHED
FOR SENDING WEAPONS TO THE
REBELS.
THE U.S. HAS RESISTED.
TODAY, GERMANY'S FOREIGN
>>.
>> ( translated ): I'M RELUCTANT
WHEN IT COMES TO THE TOPIC OF
DIRECT ARMS DELIVERIES TO SYRIA
BECAUSE TO DATE I HAVE SEEN NO
WAY TO PREVENT THESE WEAPONS
GETTING INTO THE WRONG HAENDZ,
MAINLY THOSE OF RADICALS.
MY CONCERN IS THAT WEAPONS THAT
ARE DELIVERED IN SYRIA WILL THEN
GET INTO THE HANDS OF JIHADISTS
AND TERRORISTS.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN 70,000
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THE
FIGHTING IN SYRIA THAT BEGAN
WITH A POPULAR UPRISING
TWO YEARS AGO.
MAJOR JAPANESE AUTOMAKERS ARE
RECALLING MORE THAN THREE
MILLION VEHICLES AROUND THE
WORLD FOR PROBLEMS WITH AIR
BAGS.
NEARLY HALF ARE IN NEW YORK.
TOYOTA, HONDA AND NISSAN
ANNOUNCED THE RECALL TODAY.
THE POTENTIAL PROBLEM IS WITH
PASSENGER-SIDE AIR BAGS, FAULTY
INFLATORS COULD BURST AND SEND
PLASTIC PIECES FLYING.
FAULTY INFLATORS COULD BURST AND
SEND PLASTIC PIECES FLYING.
THE AIR BAGS WERE MADE BY
JAPAN'S TAKATA CORPORATION.
IN U.S. ECONOMIC NEWS, THE
NUMBER OF FORECLOSED HOMES FELL
IN MARCH TO THE LOWEST LEVEL IN
MORE THAN FIVE YES.AR
THE LISTING FIRM REALTY-TRAC
ALSO REPORTED A 21% DECLINE IN
THE LAST 12 MONTHS.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 63 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 14,865.
THE NASDAQ ROSE ALMOST THREE
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3,300.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: A DAY AFTER THE
PRESIDENT SENT HIS BUDGET TO
CONGRESS, SEVERAL KEY PROPOSALS
WERE HOT TOPICS AMONG LAWMAKERS
IN BOTH PARTIES.
>> THIS IS TWO MILLION PLUS!
>> Brown: LIBERAL AND
PROGRESSIVE LEADERS RALLIED
OUTSIDE THE CAPITOL THIS
AFTERNOON, SOUNDING OFF AGAINST
THE PRESIDENT'S DECISION TO CURB
SOME ENTITLEMENT PROGRAM
SPENDING IN HIS BUDGET PROPOSAL.
>> WE'VE STOOD WITH YOU.
IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO STAND WITH
THE SENIORS OF THIS COUNTRY.
IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO STAND ON
THEIR SIDE AND SAY THAT WE'RE
NOT GOING TO TOLERATE A BENEFITS
CUT.
>> Brown: TWO CHANGES IN
PARTICULAR HAVE IRKED MANY ON
THE POLITICAL LEFT.
ONE IS THE PRESIDENT'S
WILLINGNESS TO ADOPT A NEW
MEASURE OF INFLATION FOR THE
GOVERNMENT KNOWN AS THE "CHAINED
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX."
IT WOULD REDUCE FUTURE BENEFITS
TO SOCIAL SECURITY RECIPIENTS,
MILITARY VETERANS AND CIVILIAN
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES.
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF EXPRESSED
RESERVATIONS YESTERDAY, BUT HE
SAID HE MADE THE OFFER TO BRING
REPUBLICANS TO THE NEGOTIATING
TABLE.
>> AND I DON'T BELIEVE THAT ALL
THESE IDEAS ARE OPTIMAL, BUT I'M
WILLING TCE
OF A COMPROMISE IF, AND ONLY IF,
THEY CONTAIN PROTECTIONS FOR THE
MOST VULNERABLE AMERICANS.
>> Brown: THAT DID NOT STOP
DEMOCRATS LIKE CONGRESSMAN MARK
POCAN OF WISCONSIN FROM PRESSING
THE ACTING BUDGET DIRECTOR, JEFF
ZIENTS, TODAY AT A HOUSE
HEARING.
>> AND I CALLED MY MOTHER.
I WOKE HER UP THIS MORNING TO
ASK HER EXACTLY WHAT SHE MAKES
ON SOCIAL SECURITY PER MONTH.
SHE'S 84, GREW UP IN A LOWER
MIDDLE-CLASS FAMILY.
THEY HAVE A MODEST HOME, BUT SHE
GETS $1,101 A MONTH AT 84.
AND I WENT THROUGH SOME OF HER
BILLS WITH HER AND WHERE SHE IS
AT IN HER SAVINGS.
IT'S JUST NOT A LOT.
AND TO TRY TO ADDRESS SOCIAL
SECURITY IN THAT WAY TO ME SEEMS
TO BE BREAKING OUR PROMISE TO
SENIORS.
>> THE PRESIDENT, AS PART OF A
BALANCED, COMPREHENSIVE DEFICIT
REDUCTION PACKAGE INCLUDED
C.P.I.
THE OTHER CONDITION, HOWEVER, IS
TO PROTECT THE MOST VULNERABLE,
INCLUDING PEOPLE LIKE YOUR
MOTHER, OLDER SOCIAL SECURITY
BENEFICIARIES.
>> Brown: THE BUDGET ALSO
CONTAINS $400 BILLION IN SAVINGS
FROM MEDICARE AND OTHER FEDERAL
HEALTH PROGRAMS.
THOSE WOULD BE ACHIEVED THROUGH
LOWER PAYMENTS TO HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS AND DRUG COMPANIES AND
BY REQUIRING WEALTHIER MEDICARE
RECIPIENTS TO PAY HIGHER
PREMIUMS.
IN HIS REMARKS YESTERDAY, THE
PRESIDENT ALSO SOUGHT TO ALLAY
CONCERNS ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
EFFECTS OF THOSE REFORMS.
>> WE'LL REDUCE OUR GOVERNMENT'S
MEDICARE BILLS BY FINDING NEW
WAYS TO REDUCE THE COST OF
HEALTH CARE NOT BY SHIFTING THE
COSTS TO SENIORS OR THE POOR OR
FAMILIES WITH DISABILITIES.
THEY ARE REFORMS THAT KEEP THE
PROMISE WE'VE MADE TO OUR
SENIORS: BASIC SECURITY THAT IS
ROCK SOLID AND DEPENDABLE, AND
THERE FOR YOU WHEN YOU NEED IT.
>> Brown: BACK AT TODAY'S
HEARING, THE CHAIR OF THE HOUSE
BUDGET COMMITTEE, REPUBLICAN
PAUL RYAN, SAID THE PLAN
REPRESENTS A GOOD FIRST STEP BUT
DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH.
>> THE PRESIDENT DOES DESERVE
CREDIT FOR CHALLENGING HIS PARTY
ON ENTITLEMENTS.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE BUDGET DOES
NOT INCLUDE THE STRUCTURAL
REFORMS THAT WE NEED TO PROTECT
AND STRENGTHEN CRITICAL HEALTH
AND RETIREMENT-SECURITY
PROGRAMS.
THE POLICY CHANGES IN THIS
BUDGET WONT SAVE THESE PROGRAMS.
THEY'LL MAKE THEM A LITTLE LESS
EXPENSIVE, BUT THEY STILL GO
BANKRUPT.
>> Brown: HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER, MEANWHILE, REJECTED THE
PRESIDENT'S DEMANDS FOR CLOSE TO
$1 TRILLION IN NEW REVENUES.
>> THE PRESIDENT CALLS THIS HIS
"COMPROMISE" BUDGET, BUT HIS
BOTTOM LINE IS THIS: "MY WAY OR
THE HIGHWAY."
IF THAT'S THE CASE, THEN I'M NOT
VERY OPTIMISTIC.
>> Brown: STILL, TREASURY
SECRETARY JACK LEW SAID TODAY
THE ADMINISTRATION IS OPTIMISTIC
A BUDGET DEAL CAN BE REACHED
THIS YEAR.
AND WE LOOK AT THIS MORE CLOSELY
NOW WITH: JARED BERNSTEIN-- HE
SERVED AS CHIEF ECONOMIST AND
ADVISER TO VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN
FROM 2009 TO 2011 AND IS NOW A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE CENTER ON
BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES;
MAX RITCHMAN IS PRESIDENT OF THE
NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE
SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE, AN
ADVOCACY GROUP; AND JOSEPH ANTOS
IS AN ECONOMIST AT THE AMERICAN
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE, WHOSE
RESEARCH INCLUDES MEDICARE AND
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM REFORM.
WELCOME TO ALL OF YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: JARED, FIRST OF ALL,
START WITH SOCIAL SECURITY AND
THIS CHAINED C.P.I.
EXPLAIN THAT TO US.
>> WANT TO JUMP RIGHT IN, HUH?
>>.
>> Brown: YES.
HOW IS IT DIFFERENT THAN THE WAY
THINGS ARE DONE?
>> THE PUNCH LINE IS THAT THE
CHAIN C.P.I. GROWS A IT WILL
MORE SLOWLY THAN THE C.P.I.
THAT'S CURRENTLY USED.
NOW SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS ARE
ADJUSTED FOR PRICE INCREASES.
THEY'RE ADJUSTED WITH THE
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX BUT FOR
REASONS THAT HAVE TO DO WITH
MOST ECONOMISTS AND MYSELF
INCLUDED DO A SLIGHTLY BETTER
MORE REALISTIC WAY OF ESTIMATING
HOW PEOPLE ACTUALLY RESPOND TO
PRICE CHANGES.
THIS CHAIN MEASURE DOES A BETTER
JOB OF CAPTURING INFLATION AND
IT GROWS MORE SLOWLY.
THAT SAID, THERE ARE CRITICS --
BY THE WAY, THAT MANSE THAT YOUR
REAL SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT
GOES UP LESS BECAUSE IT'S
ADJUSTED BY A DIFFERENT
INFLATIONARY MEASURE.
LET ME BE CLEAR THOUGH --.
>> Brown: AND THERE'S THE RUB.
>> THERE'S RUB NUMBER ONE.
RUB NUMBER TWO-- WHICH I THINK
IS ALSO AN IMPORTANT RUB-- IS
THAT THE PRICES THAT ELDERLY
PEOPLE FACE ARE DIFFERENT THAN
THE PRICES THAN THE THAT THE
REST OF US FACE.
THEY FACE MORE MEDICAL COSTS,
THAT THEY PAY MORE OUT-OF-POCKET
FOR MEDICAL COSTS SO WHILE THE
CHAIN C.P.I. IS MORE ACCURATE
MEASURE OF INFLATION OVERALL,
IT'S PROBABLY NOT MORE ACCURATE
FOR ELDERLY PEOPLE.
>> Pelley: ALL RIGHT, MAX
RITCHMAN, YOU HATE THIS IDEA,
RIGHT?
>> THAT'S AN UNDERSTAND.
>> Brown: OKAY.
(LAUGHS)
EXPLAIN.
>> WELL, RUB NUMBER THREE IS
THAT THE CURRENT FORMULA THAT'S
BEING USED, THE CONSUMER PRICE
INDEX UNDER CURRENT LAW, THAT IS
INADEQUATE.
IT DOES NOT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
ENOUGH OF THE GOODS AND SERVICES
JARED'S TALKED ABOUT THAT
SENIORS RELY ON.
SO NOT ENOUGH WEIGHT IS GIVEN ON
HEALTH CARE COSTS, OUT-OF-POCKET
COSTS.
MEDICARE IS A GREAT PROGRAM.
IT DOESN'T COVER DENTAL CARE,
VISION CARE HEARING AIDS.
AND OUT-OF-POCKET COST WHICH IS
GO UP CONTRARY TO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID, A LOT OF
OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS ARE GOING UP
UNDER HIS PROPOSAL SO THE
CURRENT FORMULA IS BAD.
DOESN'T KEEP UP WITH INFLATION.
>> Brown: SO SENIORS DON'T GET
ENOUGH COST OF LIVING INCREASE
NOW, YOU'RE SAYING.
>> SO WE'RE NOW GOING TO TELL
SENIORS THAT INADEQUATE COLA
YOU'VE BEEN GETTING, YOU GOT
ZERO FOR TWO OUT OF THE LAST
FOUR YEARS, THAT WAS TOO
GENEROUS.
WE'VE DEVISED A BETTER WAY-- NOT
MYSELF, BUT IN WASHINGTON-- AND
YOUR COLA WILL BE EVEN SMALLER.
SO WE'RE GOING TO GO FOR A
FLAWED INADEQUATE ADJUSTMENT FOR
INFLATION TO AN EVEN WORSE
FORMULA.
>> CAN YOU MAKE A CASE FOR WHY
THIS IS A GOOD MOVE?
>> LET'S BE CLEAR THAT IF
INFLATION IS ZERO-- WHICH IT HAS
BEEN FOR THE LAST COUPLE YEARS--
SENIORS ARE NOT GOING SEE A
REDUCTION IN THEIR SOCIAL
SECURITY PAYMENTS
>> LET'S NOT PANIC ABOUT THAT.
>> I HOPE NOT!
>> IT'S ILLEGAL.
THE FACT IS, HOWEVER, THAT
SOCIAL SECURITY MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID ARE THE KEY DRIVERS OF
OUR OVERALL FISCAL PROBLEMS.
MAX IS RIGHT.
THIS REPRESENTS A CUT IN
PAYMENTS.
IT'S A SLOW CUT IN PAYMENTS.
IT'S NOT A GIGANTIC REDUCTION AT
ONCE.
>> A FEW TENTHS PER YEAR.
>> EXACTLY.
WHAT IT BASICALLY SAYS IS IF WE
WENT BACK INTO A NORMAL ECONOMY
AND WE HAD, SAY, 2% INFLATION
INSTEAD OF GETTING, SAY, $200
RAISE ON A $10,000 SOCIAL
SECURITY PAYMENT YOU'D GET $150.
THE LOSS OF $50 MEANS SOMETHING,
BUT THE INCREASE ALSO MEANS
SOMETHING.
>> Brown: BUT THE QUESTION IS,
DOES IT MAKE SENSE AS A WAY TO
DEAL -- ONE OF THE WAYS TO DEAL
WITH THIS LARGE PROBLEM THAT WE
HAVE?
>> I THINK ONLY WAY IT MAKES
SENSE-- AND HERE THE PRESIDENT
AGREES STRONGLY WITH WHAT I'M
ABOUT TO SAY.
I THINK THE ONLY WAY IT MAKES
SENSE AS AN ADJUSTMENT TO SOCIAL
SECURITY IS IF YOU MAKE SURE
THAT YOU OFFSET SOME OF THE
PROBLEMS THAT MAX AND JOE JUST
MENTIONED.
AND WHAT THE PRESIDENT IS
PROPOSING, THIS PART MAYBE
HASN'T BEEN REPORTED QUITE IS SA
BENEFIT ENHANCEMENT OR A BUMPUP
STARTING AFTER ABOUT TEN YEARS
OF BEING ON SOCIAL SECURITY.
SO YOU TAKE THAT HIT THAT WE
JUST TALKED ABOUT IN TERMS OF
THE SMALLER INCREASES FOR ABOUT
A DECADE THERE'S A BUMPUP WHICH
WILL ULTIMATELY AFTER TEN YEARS
AMOUNT TO 5% OF THE AVERAGE
BENEFIT, WHICH IS ABOUT $750.
SO THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSING,
YES, WE THINK WE SHOULD DO THIS
FOR A VARIETY OF REASONS-- NOT
LEAST OF WHICH IS TO BRING
REPUBLICANS TO THE TABLE FOR
OTHER REASONS-- BUT WE'RE GOING
TO TRY TO OFFSET THE BENEFIT
LOSSES WITH A BUMPUP.
>> TO GIVE SOME PROTECTION.
>> IT'S BENEFIT ENHANCEMENT TO
PROTECT THE FOLKS WE WORRY
ABOUT.
>> I WONDER IF I COULD JUST
COMMENT ON THAT BECAUSE THIS IS
BEING SOLD, PEDALED, AS A MORE
-- THIS CHAINED C.P.I. AS A MORE
ACCURATE MEASURE OF INFLATION
E.IT'S NOT MORE ACCURATE FOR
SENIORS BUT IT'S BEING PRESENTED
AS MORE ACCURATE.
IF IT'S ACCURATE WHY DO YOU NEED
A BUMP?
THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE
FORMULA IF THE COLA IS SUPPOSED
TO KEEP UP WITH INFLATION YOU
WOULDN'T NEED THAT.
BUT I ALSO WANTED-- YOU DIDN'T
GO HERE BUT I WANT TO MAKE THIS
OBSERVATION.
WE SHOULDN'T EVEN BE HERE
TALKING ABOUT.
THIS I'M GLAD TO BE HERE TALKING
ON YOUR SHOW.
>> Brown: ACTUALLY, THAT'S WHAT
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT.
THAT'S THE LARGER QUESTION.
SHOULD SOCIAL SECURITY BE PART
OF THIS.
>> IT DID NOT.
IT DIDN'T CREATE THE DEFICIT,
HADN'T ADDED A DIME TO THE
DEFICIT, THE DEBT OR THE ANNUAL
DEFICIT, HAS A SURPLUS OF $2.7
TRILLION, IS SOUND-- JARED KNOWS
THIS-- FOR THE NEXT 20 YEARS.
NOT ACCORDING TO JARED, MAX,
ANYONE HERE IS ABLE TO PAY FULL
BENEFITS FOR THE NEXT 20 YEARS.
THEN THERE'S A SHORTFALL THAT
NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED.
WE DON'T NEED TO SOLVE THAT
TODAY OR IN THE NEXT TWO MONTHS.
WE HAVE TIME TO DO THAT.
IT SHOULDN'T BE PART OF A DEBATE
AND I WAS GRATIFIED TODAY TO SEE
SENATOR MAX BAUCUS AT A HEARING
SAY THIS SHOULDN'T BE -- THIS
CHANGE SHOULD NOT BE PART OF THE
DISCUSSION ON DEBT NEGOTIATION
IT IS.
I WAS GRATIFYED TO HEAR LEADER
PELOSI WDER WHY IT'S PART OF
THIS BUDGET PROPOSAL.
SO I THINK WE'RE MAKING SOME
PROGRESS.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, SHOULD IT
BE PART OF THE DEBATE?
>> WE CAN'T WAIT 20 YEARS AND
THEN DECIDE WE'VE GOT AN
EMERGENCY.
THIS HAS, OF COURSE, BEEN THE
TENDENCY OF POLICYMAKERS TO PUT
OFF THE PAIN UNTIL LATER.
THE FACT IS, WE SHOULD BE MAKING
REASONABLE REFORMS TO ENCOURAGE
PEOPLE TO SAVE MORE FOR THEIR
RETIREMENT AND 20 YEARS IS JUST
ABOUT THE RIGHT AMOUNT OF TIME
FOR PEOPLE TO GET READY FOR
REALITY.
THE FACT IS THAT THIS IS A
BUDGET HERE.
THIS IS NOT A REFORM OF SOCIAL
SECURITY.
THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS WE NEED TO
PROVIDE INCENTIVES FOR PEOPLE TO
STAY ON THE JOB LONGER WHO F
THEY ARE ABLE-BODIED AND ABLE
MINDED AND WE'RE LIVING LONGER
AND HEALTHIER.
>> I THINK JUST TO BE CLEAR HERE
IT'S QUITE OBVIOUS THAT THE
PRESIDENT PUT THE CHAINED C.P.I.
IN HIS BUDGET BECAUSE HE WANTS
TO BRING REPUBLICANS TO THE
TABLE ON THIS KEY ISSUE OF
REVENUES.
NEW TAX REVENUES.
>> Brown: THAT'S RIGHT.
BUT HE'S PLIIMCITLY OR EVEN
EXPLICITLY MAKING A CASE FOR ONE
YOU DON'T WANT, THAT IT SHOULD
BE PART OF THE DISCUSSION.
>> NO, I THINK HE IS AND I THINK
THAT HE'S DOING SO IN SUCH A WAY
WITH THIS BENEFIT ENHANCEMENT,
THIS BUMP UPTHAT TRIES TOOFF SET
IT.
HE HIMSELF IN HIS COMMENTARY
SAID "THIS ISN'T EXACTLY THE WAY
I'D LIKE TO GO."
BUT WE HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD AND
WE HAVE TO BE CONCERNED AND
MAYBE MAX AND I DEPART A BIT ON
THIS POINT.
WHILE I TAKE YOUR POINT ON
SOCIAL SECURITY, WHEN IT COMES
TO ACHIEVING A SUSTAINABLE
BUDGET PICTURE IN THE LONG RUN,
THAT HAS TO INVOLVE SLOWING THE
GROWTH OF HEALTH COSTS.
AND THERE THE PRESIDENT ALSO HAS
SIGNIFICANT CUTS IN THE BUDGET
ABOUT $400 BILLION FROM MEDICARE
AND MEDICAID, LARGELY FROM
MEDICARE, LARGELY ON THE
DELIVERY SIDE.
A POINT THAT WE HAVEN'T MADE
YET-- AND THIS GETS TO SOME
THINGS MAX HAS SAID-- THE
TYPICAL BENEFICIARY OF MEDICARE
AND SOCIAL SECURITY HAS AN
INCOME OF ABOUT $25,000.
SO WHEN WE START FOOLING AROUND
WITH THESE KINDS OF ADJUSTMENTS
AND CUTS LET'S BE MINDFUL OF NOT
HURTING THESE ECONOMICALLY
VULNERABLE FOLKS.
>> Brown: MECAREDI, JOE ANTOS?
YOU SCOFFED WHEN HE SAID THIS
WAS A SIGNIFICANT REFORM.
>> IT'S NOT A SIGNIFICANT
REFORM.
IT'S A REPLAY OF LAST YEAR'S
BUDGET WITH MINOR TWEAKS.
LAST YEAR'S BUDGET PROPOSAL FROM
THE PRESIDENT DID NOT
SUBSTANTIALLY REFORM THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM.
THE FACT IS THAT THE $400
MILLION OF CUTS ARE OFFSET BY
$250 BILLION WORTH OF ADDITIONAL
SPENDING THAT THE PRESIDENT
ASSUMES WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM.
SO WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT --
>> SO HERE WE HAVE A
DISAGREEMENT.
HERE'S A FACT: IF YOU LOOK BACK
AT THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
OFFICE PROJECTION OF MEDICARE
COSTS OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS
AND YOU LOOK BACK A COUPLE YEARS
AGO YOU LOOK AT TODAY, THAT
PROJECTION IS DOWN BY $500
BILLION.
THAT MEANS SOME OF THE CHANGES
THAT WE AND THE HEALTH CARE
INDUSTRY HAVE IMPLEMENTED--
INCLUDING THINGS THE PRESIDENT
HAS BROUGHT TO THE TABLE-- HAVE
ACTUALLY ALREADY SLOWED THE
GROWTH OF HEALTH CARE COSTS.
SO I DISAGREE WITH JOE.
>> Brown: GO AHEAD.
>> I DO THINK THAT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT HAS RESULTED
IN CONSIDERABLE SAVINGS.
SOME OF THE SAVINGS HAVE NOT
EVEN BEEN IMPLEMENTED YET.
SO LET'S GIVE THAT A CHANCE TO
WORK.
BUT KEEP IN MIND HERE THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SOCIAL SECURITY
AND MEDICARE, WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT RETIREMENT SECURITY.
AS JARED SAID ABOUT HALF OF
SENIORS RIGHT NOW RECEIVE ABOUT
$22,000 A YEAR IN INCOME SO
WE'RE ASKING THEM TO GET LESS
AND TO PAY MORE.
PAY MORE FOR PREMIUMS,
DEDUCTIBLES, CO-PAYMENTS,
OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS.
>> Brown: BRIEF LAST WORD.
>> SO THE KEY HERE IS THAT WE
HAVE TO HAVE REAL REFORM.
REAL REFORM MEANS THAT PEOPLE
CHANGE THE WAY THEY BEHAVE.
IN THE CASE OF MEDICARE THE
BENEFICIARIES CHANGE THE WAY
THEY BEHAVE AND THE HEALTH
SECTOR CHANGES THE WAY IT
BEHAVES.
THERE IS LITERALLY NOTHING IN
THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET THAT HATZ
THAT KIND OF --
>> I KNOW YOU SAID LAST WORD BUT
THAT'S FACTUALLY INCORRECT.
YOU SAID IN THE YOUR
INTRODUCTION.
BUNDLED PAYMENTS.
>> THAT'S NOT IN THE THE
PRESIDENT'S BUDGET.
>> IT IS!
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
OKAY.
VERY BIG SUBJECT, SHORT AMOUNT
OF TIME AND I PROMISE YOU WE'LL
CONTINUE.
JARED BERNSTEIN, JOE ANTOS AND
MAX RITCHMAN, THANK YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: ONLINE, WE INVITE YOU
TO WEIGH IN WITH YOUR THOUGHTS
ON THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSALS ON
SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE.
YOU CAN LEAVE A COMMENT AT OUR
"RUNDOWN" BLOG OR ON OUR
FACEBOOK PAGE.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO OUR SERIES
ON DROPOUTS AND WHAT EDUCATORS
ARE TRYING TO GET MORE HIGH-
SCHOOL STUDENTS TO GRADUATE.
WE'VE SPENT MUCH TIME
CHRONICLING THE PROBLEM AND
LOOKING AT DIFFERENT APPROACHES
THAT MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
THERE'S BEEN BETTER NEWS TO
REPORT OF LATE, BUT WITH
GRADUATION SEASON COMING SOON,
THERE ARE ALSO QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHAT'S BEHIND THE NUMBERS.
THE NEWSHOUR'S SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MERROW, HAS THE STORY FOR
OUR AMERICAN GRADUATE PROJECT.
>> Reporter: IT'S GRADUATION DAY
FOR THE HIGH SCHOOL CLASS OF
2012 AT COLLEGE CAREER TECH
ACADEMY IN PHARR, TEXAS.
GRADUATION RATES HAVE BEEN
RISING HERE.
IN FACT, ACCORDING TO A U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION REPORT,
THEY'VE BEEN GOING UP ALL ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
THE LATEST DATA SHOW THE HIGH
SCHOOL GRADUATION RATE HAS RISEN
TO 78.2%.
THAT'S A FIVE PERCENTAGE POINT
JUMP IN JUST FOUR YEARS AFTER
FLAT-LINING FOR ALMOST 40.
>> THE NATION'S IMPROVEMENT OVER
THE LAST FOUR OR FIVE YEARS HAS
ACTUALLY BEEN DRIVEN BY THE KIDS
WHO HAVE THE HIGHEST DROPOUT
RATES.
SO, THE RATES ARE UP THE MOST
AMONG LATINO, HISPANIC STUDENTS.
THEY'VE ACTUALLY HAD A TEN-POINT
GAIN OVER THAT FIVE-YEAR PERIOD.
AFRICAN AMERICANS ARE UP
ABOUT 6.5 POINTS.
AND THE WHITE RATE'S ONLY UP A
COUPLE OF POINTS.
>> Reporter: BOB BALFANZ IS A
LEADING EXPERT ON HIGH SCHOOL
DROPOUTS.
>> WE'RE ACTUALLY, FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN 40 YEARS, SEEING REAL
PROGRESS AT IMPROVING THE
NATION'S GRADUATION RATE.
>> Reporter: THE GAINS ARE
REMARKABLE, BUT CAN THE NUMBERS
BE TRUSTED?
IN THE PAST, SOME SCHOOL
SYSTEMS, INCLUDING THIS ONE IN
ORLANDO, FLORIDA, HAVE PLAYED
FAST AND LOOSE WITH THE NUMBERS,
LABELING DROPOUTS AS TRANSFERS
AND ADVISING LOW-PERFORMING
STUDENTS LIKE JOEL MARTINEZ TO
LEAVE SCHOOL TO GET A G.E.D.
>> IN SCHOOL, WE HEARD A LOT THE
G.E.D. IS A LOT QUICKER.
YOU HAVE LESS PROBLEMS.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
HIGH SCHOOL CREDITS.
THIS, YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
ABOUT THAT.
THIS, YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
YOU GO, TAKE YOUR TEST, GET YOUR
ABOUT THAT.
G.E.D., AND YOU'RE DONE.
YOU GO, TAKE YOUR TEST, GET YOUR
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO A 2005
G.E.D., AND YOU'RE DONE.
REPORT BY THE EDUCATION TRUST,
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO A 2005
AT LEAST ONE STATE, NEW MEXICO,
REPORT BY THE EDUCATION TRUST,
CALCULATED GRADUATION RATES
AT LEAST ONE STATE, NEW MEXICO,
BASED ONLY ON THE NUMBER OF
CALCULATED GRADUATION RATES
SENIORS WHO GRADUATED.
BASED ONLY ON THE NUMBER OF
THEY EXCLUDING 9th, 10th AND
SENIORS WHO GRADUATED.
11th GRADERS WHO DROPPED OUT.
THEY EXCLUDING 9th, 10th AND
BALFANZ SAYS SOME SCHOOLS AND
11th GRADERS WHO DROPPED OUT.
STATES ARE STILL FINDING WAYS TO
BALFANZ SAYS SOME SCHOOLS AND
INFLATE THEIR NUMBERS.
STATES ARE STILL FINDING WAYS TO
>> WE FIND IN SOME STATES A
INFLATE THEIR NUMBERS.
NUMBER OF 11th AND 12th GRADERS
>> WE FIND IN SOME STATES A
SUDDENLY GOING TO HOME
NUMBER OF 11th AND 12th GRADERS
SCHOOLING.
SUDDENLY GOING TO HOME
AND THEN YOU PUSH DEEPER AND YOU
SCHOOLING.
FIND THAT HALF THOSE KIDS ARE
AND THEN YOU PUSH DEEPER AND YOU
OVERAGE FOR GRADE.
FIND THAT HALF THOSE KIDS ARE
>> Reporter: BALFANZ SAYS THAT
OVERAGE FOR GRADE.
BECAUSE SOME STATES-- INDIANA,
>> Reporter: BALFANZ SAYS THAT
FOR EXAMPLE-- TRY TO KEEP KIDS
BECAUSE SOME STATES-- INDIANA,
IN SCHOOL BY TAKING AWAY THEIR
FOR EXAMPLE-- TRY TO KEEP KIDS
DRIVERS LICENSES IF THEY DROP-
IN SCHOOL BY TAKING AWAY THEIR
OUT, BUT THEN THEY OFFER HOME-
DRIVERS LICENSES IF THEY DROP-
SCHOOLING AS A WAY OUT.
OUT, BUT THEN THEY OFFER HOME-
>> YOU GET TO KEEP YOUR DRIVER'S
SCHOOLING AS A WAY OUT.
LICENSE IF YOU CAN JUST SAY "I'M
>> YOU GET TO KEEP YOUR DRIVER'S
GOING TO BE... MY PARENTS AGREE
LICENSE IF YOU CAN JUST SAY "I'M
I'LL BE HOME-SCHOOLED," AS
GOING TO BE... MY PARENTS AGREE
OPPOSED TO "I'M DROPPING OUT OF
I'LL BE HOME-SCHOOLED," AS
SCHOOL BECAUSE I'M NOT
OPPOSED TO "I'M DROPPING OUT OF
SUCCEEDING."
SCHOOL BECAUSE I'M NOT
>> Reporter: RUSSELL RUMBERGER
SUCCEEDING."
OF U.C.-SANTA BARBARA SAYS MANY
>> Reporter: RUSSELL RUMBERGER
CALIFORNIA SCHOOL DISTRICTS HAVE
OF U.C.-SANTA BARBARA SAYS MANY
CREATED ALTERNATIVE SCHOOL
CALIFORNIA SCHOOL DISTRICTS HAVE
SYSTEMS FOR LOW PERFORMING
CREATED ALTERNATIVE SCHOOL
STUDENTS, A KIND OF PARALLEL
SYSTEMS FOR LOW PERFORMING
UNIVERSE.
STUDENTS, A KIND OF PARALLEL
>> IF A SCHOOL WANTS TO RAISE
UNIVERSE.
THEIR PERFORMANCE LEVELS, EITHER
>> IF A SCHOOL WANTS TO RAISE
TEST SCORES OR GRAD RATES, AND
THEIR PERFORMANCE LEVELS, EITHER
THEY HAVE STUDENTS WHO ARE LOW
TEST SCORES OR GRAD RATES, AND
ACHIEVING WHO WILL DRAG THEM
THEY HAVE STUDENTS WHO ARE LOW
DOWN, THEN ONE... ONE
ACHIEVING WHO WILL DRAG THEM
ALTERNATIVE THEY HAVE IS TO
DOWN, THEN ONE... ONE
TRANSFER THEM INTO AN
ALTERNATIVE THEY HAVE IS TO
ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM THAT EITHER
TRANSFER THEM INTO AN
IS RUN BY THEM, THEIR OWN, THE
ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM THAT EITHER
DISTRICT ITSELF, OR OUTSIDE THE
IS RUN BY THEM, THEIR OWN, THE
DISTRICTS.
DISTRICT ITSELF, OR OUTSIDE THE
>> Reporter: SOME SCHOOLS OFFER
DISTRICTS.
STUDENTS WHO ARE FAILING OR HAVE
>> Reporter: SOME SCHOOLS OFFER
DROPPED OUT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
STUDENTS WHO ARE FAILING OR HAVE
MAKE UP MISSING CREDITS BY
DROPPED OUT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
TAKING COURSES ONLINE.
MAKE UP MISSING CREDITS BY
>> IT MAY BE LEGITIMATE IN TERMS
TAKING COURSES ONLINE.
OF HOW IT ACTUALLY...
>> IT MAY BE LEGITIMATE IN TERMS
TECHNICALLY, HOW IT WORKS, BUT
OF HOW IT ACTUALLY...
IT'S QUESTIONABLE OF... OF ITS
TECHNICALLY, HOW IT WORKS, BUT
QUALITY.
IT'S QUESTIONABLE OF... OF ITS
>> Reporter: THESE SO-CALLED
QUALITY.
CREDIT RECOVERY COURSES ALLOW
>> Reporter: THESE SO-CALLED
STUDENTS TO PROCEED AT THEIR OWN
CREDIT RECOVERY COURSES ALLOW
PACE.
STUDENTS TO PROCEED AT THEIR OWN
>> SOMEBODY THAT WORKED IN MY
PACE.
OFFICE WITH HER SON WHERE HE I
>> SOMEBODY THAT WORKED IN MY
THINK MADE UP A SEMESTER GRADE
OFFICE WITH HER SON WHERE HE I
IN ABOUT SIX DAYS AND ABOUT 12
THINK MADE UP A SEMESTER GRADE
HOURS OF WORK.
IN ABOUT SIX DAYS AND ABOUT 12
>> Reporter: ARE THESE IMPROVED
HOURS OF WORK.
GRADUATION RATES, HAVE THEY BEEN
>> Reporter: ARE THESE IMPROVED
INFLUENCED BY THE GROWTH OF
GRADUATION RATES, HAVE THEY BEEN
CREDIT RECOVERY?
INFLUENCED BY THE GROWTH OF
>> WELL, I PROB... I WOULD
CREDIT RECOVERY?
SUSPECT THEY ARE, BUT I DON'T...
>> WELL, I PROB... I WOULD
IT'S HARD TO QUANTIFY HOW MUCH
SUSPECT THEY ARE, BUT I DON'T...
SO.
IT'S HARD TO QUANTIFY HOW MUCH
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
SO.
>> Reporter: WHILE SOME
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
GRADUATION NUMBERS IN SOME
>> Reporter: WHILE SOME
SCHOOLS MAY STILL BE
GRADUATION NUMBERS IN SOME
QUESTIONABLE, BOTH RUMBERGER AND
SCHOOLS MAY STILL BE
BALFANZ SAY THE RECENT
QUESTIONABLE, BOTH RUMBERGER AND
IMPROVEMENT IS REAL.
BALFANZ SAY THE RECENT
THEY SAY, IN 2005, POLITICAL
IMPROVEMENT IS REAL.
PRESSURE FORCED ALL STATES TO
THEY SAY, IN 2005, POLITICAL
COUNT GRADUATES THE SAME WAY,
PRESSURE FORCED ALL STATES TO
HOW MANY ENTER 9th GRADE AND HOW
COUNT GRADUATES THE SAME WAY,
MANY GRADUATE.
HOW MANY ENTER 9th GRADE AND HOW
>> ABOUT 2005, MARK WARNER MADE
MANY GRADUATE.
IT THE YEAR OF THE HIGH SCHOOL.
>> ABOUT 2005, MARK WARNER MADE
AND THE... AND THE NATION'S
IT THE YEAR OF THE HIGH SCHOOL.
GOVERNORS ACTUALLY SIGNED A
AND THE... AND THE NATION'S
COMPACT TO SAY WE ARE ALL GOING
GOVERNORS ACTUALLY SIGNED A
TO MEASURE GRADUATION RATES THE
COMPACT TO SAY WE ARE ALL GOING
SAME WAY.
TO MEASURE GRADUATION RATES THE
BECAUSE BEFORE THAT, EVERYBODY
SAME WAY.
MEASURED IT DIFFERENTLY SO WE
BECAUSE BEFORE THAT, EVERYBODY
COULDN'T REALLY KNOW WHERE WE'RE
MEASURED IT DIFFERENTLY SO WE
AT.
COULDN'T REALLY KNOW WHERE WE'RE
>> Reporter: THE COUNTRY BEGAN
AT.
PAYING SERIOUS ATTENTION TO
>> Reporter: THE COUNTRY BEGAN
GRADUATION RATES IN 2006.
PAYING SERIOUS ATTENTION TO
A NATIONAL STUDY CALLED DROPOUTS
GRADUATION RATES IN 2006.
THE SILENT EPIDEMIC.
A NATIONAL STUDY CALLED DROPOUTS
"TIME" MAGAZINE MADE THE ISSUE A
THE SILENT EPIDEMIC.
COVER STORY, AND STATES TOOK
"TIME" MAGAZINE MADE THE ISSUE A
ACTION.
COVER STORY, AND STATES TOOK
OVER THE PAST YEARS, THE
ACTION.
NEWSHOUR HAS LOOKED AT SEVERAL
OVER THE PAST YEARS, THE
REFORMS THAT HAVE HELPED PUSH
NEWSHOUR HAS LOOKED AT SEVERAL
GRADUATION RATES UP.
REFORMS THAT HAVE HELPED PUSH
ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT WAS
GRADUATION RATES UP.
CLOSING DROPOUT FACTORIES, LARGE
ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT WAS
HIGH SCHOOLS WITH HUGE DROPOUT
CLOSING DROPOUT FACTORIES, LARGE
RATES.
HIGH SCHOOLS WITH HUGE DROPOUT
>> THE PATTERN THESE STUDENTS
RATES.
WOULD TAKE IN THESE SCHOOLS WAS
>> THE PATTERN THESE STUDENTS
VERY ROUTINE, VERY PREDICTABLE
WOULD TAKE IN THESE SCHOOLS WAS
AND VERY EFFICIENT, LIKE A
VERY ROUTINE, VERY PREDICTABLE
FACTORY.
AND VERY EFFICIENT, LIKE A
SO, THE BASIC STORY IS THEY
FACTORY.
WOULD COME INTO HIGH SCHOOL MANY
SO, THE BASIC STORY IS THEY
MULTIPLE YEARS BEHIND GRADE
WOULD COME INTO HIGH SCHOOL MANY
LEVEL.
MULTIPLE YEARS BEHIND GRADE
MANY OF THEM WOULD FAIL THEIR
LEVEL.
COURSES.
MANY OF THEM WOULD FAIL THEIR
THE SCOL SHOYSTEM WOULD SAY,
COURSES.
"WELL, TRY AGAIN UNDER THE SAME
THE SCOL SHOYSTEM WOULD SAY,
CIRCUMSTANCES."
"WELL, TRY AGAIN UNDER THE SAME
THEY MIGHT DO A SHORT TIME IN AN
CIRCUMSTANCES."
ALTERNATIVE AND THEN DROP OUT.
THEY MIGHT DO A SHORT TIME IN AN
AND TO US, THAT SEEMED VERY
ALTERNATIVE AND THEN DROP OUT.
ROUTINE, VERY FACTORY-LIKE.
AND TO US, THAT SEEMED VERY
>> Reporter: THE NUMBER OF SUCH
ROUTINE, VERY FACTORY-LIKE.
SCHOOLS HAS DROPPED FROM ABOUT
>> Reporter: THE NUMBER OF SUCH
2,000 BACK IN 2002 TO JUST OVER
SCHOOLS HAS DROPPED FROM ABOUT
1,400 TODAY.
2,000 BACK IN 2002 TO JUST OVER
>> PEOPLE RECOGNIZED, FROM OUR
1,400 TODAY.
RESEARCH AND OTHERS, THAT IT WAS
>> PEOPLE RECOGNIZED, FROM OUR
THIS SUBSET OF HIGH SCHOOLS,
RESEARCH AND OTHERS, THAT IT WAS
THAT 10% OF HIGH SCHOOLS MORE OR
THIS SUBSET OF HIGH SCHOOLS,
LESS, 10%, 12% WERE PRODUCING
THAT 10% OF HIGH SCHOOLS MORE OR
HALF THE DROPOUTS, WHICH MADE IT
LESS, 10%, 12% WERE PRODUCING
SEEM LIKE A TARGETED, SOLVABLE
HALF THE DROPOUTS, WHICH MADE IT
PROBLEM.
SEEM LIKE A TARGETED, SOLVABLE
>> Reporter: ANOTHER REASON FOR
PROBLEM.
THE RISE IN GRADUATION RATES:
>> Reporter: ANOTHER REASON FOR
SOME DISTRICTS HAVE ADOPTED
THE RISE IN GRADUATION RATES:
PROVEN STRATEGIES LIKE SMALLER
SOME DISTRICTS HAVE ADOPTED
SCHOOLS, WHERE EVERYONE KNOWS
PROVEN STRATEGIES LIKE SMALLER
YOUR NAME.
SCHOOLS, WHERE EVERYONE KNOWS
>> WE GI
YOUR NAME.
OPPORTUNITIES WHO HAVEN'T HAD
>> WE GI
THE CHANCE FOR THE ARTS.
OPPORTUNITIES WHO HAVEN'T HAD
>> Reporter: IN 2010, TANYA JOHN
THE CHANCE FOR THE ARTS.
WAS THE PRINCIPAL OF THE HIGH
>> Reporter: IN 2010, TANYA JOHN
SCHOOL FOR VIOLIN AND DANCE, ONE
WAS THE PRINCIPAL OF THE HIGH
OF ABOUT 100 THEME-BASED SMALL
SCHOOL FOR VIOLIN AND DANCE, ONE
SCHOOLS IN NEW YORK CITY.
OF ABOUT 100 THEME-BASED SMALL
AT SMALL SCHOOLS.END TO
SCHOOLS IN NEW YORK CITY.
HALF WAY ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN
AT SMALL SCHOOLS.END TO
TEXAS, A DISTRICT IS KEEPING
HALF WAY ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN
BORED KIDS IN HIGH SCHOOL BY
TEXAS, A DISTRICT IS KEEPING
LETTING THEM ATTEND COLLEGE AT
BORED KIDS IN HIGH SCHOOL BY
THE SAME TIME.
LETTING THEM ATTEND COLLEGE AT
>> WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT DOING
THE SAME TIME.
IS DOING EDUCATION IN A
>> WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT DOING
DIFFERENT WAY, WHERE THE
IS DOING EDUCATION IN A
COLLEGES COME TOGETHER WITH US
DIFFERENT WAY, WHERE THE
AND START WORKING WITH THESE
COLLEGES COME TOGETHER WITH US
YOUNG PEOPLE WHILE THEY ARE
AND START WORKING WITH THESE
STILL IN HIGH SCHOOL.
YOUNG PEOPLE WHILE THEY ARE
>> Reporter: BEFORE
STILL IN HIGH SCHOOL.
SUPERINTENDENT DANIEL KING BEGAN
>> Reporter: BEFORE
THE COLLEGE PROGRAM, MANY
SUPERINTENDENT DANIEL KING BEGAN
STUDENTS DROPPED OUT TO GET
THE COLLEGE PROGRAM, MANY
JOBS.
STUDENTS DROPPED OUT TO GET
NOW, THEY SEE A CLEAR PATH TO A
JOBS.
BETTER FUTURE.
NOW, THEY SEE A CLEAR PATH TO A
JONATHAN SANCHEZ IS A SENIOR.
BETTER FUTURE.
>> I'M TAKING BUSINESS COMPUTER
JONATHAN SANCHEZ IS A SENIOR.
SYSTEMS.
>> I'M TAKING BUSINESS COMPUTER
I'M TAKING MEDICAL BILLING--
SYSTEMS.
LIKE, I WANT TO BE CERTIFIED IN
I'M TAKING MEDICAL BILLING--
IT.
LIKE, I WANT TO BE CERTIFIED IN
I'M TAKING AN OSHA COURSE.
IT.
THERE'S, LIKE, SO MUCH GOING ON,
I'M TAKING AN OSHA COURSE.
LIKE, IT FEELS LIKE MY BRAIN IS
THERE'S, LIKE, SO MUCH GOING ON,
BEING OCCUPIED THE WHOLE TIME.
LIKE, IT FEELS LIKE MY BRAIN IS
>> FOR MANY KIDS TO REALLY
BEING OCCUPIED THE WHOLE TIME.
BELIEVE SCHOOLING IS
>> FOR MANY KIDS TO REALLY
GOING TO LEAD SOMEWHERE, YOU'VE
BELIEVE SCHOOLING IS
GOT TO HAVE REALLY STRONG
GOING TO LEAD SOMEWHERE, YOU'VE
PATHWAYS TO ADULT SUCCESS.
GOT TO HAVE REALLY STRONG
AND THAT'S DIFFERENT
PATHWAYS TO ADULT SUCCESS.
POSSIBILITIES DEPENDING ON WHERE
AND THAT'S DIFFERENT
YOU'RE AT.
POSSIBILITIES DEPENDING ON WHERE
>> Reporter: MULTIPLE PATHWAYS?
YOU'RE AT.
>> DIFFERENT.
>> Reporter: MULTIPLE PATHWAYS?
SO, SOME COULD LEAD TO COLLEGE,
>> DIFFERENT.
SOME COULD LEAD TO REALLY SOLID
SO, SOME COULD LEAD TO COLLEGE,
JOB TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES THAT
SOME COULD LEAD TO REALLY SOLID
LEAD TO A JOB, SOME TO COMMUNITY
JOB TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES THAT
COLLEGE AND THEN A TECHNICAL
LEAD TO A JOB, SOME TO COMMUNITY
JOB.
COLLEGE AND THEN A TECHNICAL
>> Reporter: GRADUATION RATES
JOB.
ARE ALSO UP AT SHELBYVILLE HIGH
>> Reporter: GRADUATION RATES
SCHOOL IN INDIANA.
ARE ALSO UP AT SHELBYVILLE HIGH
SHELBYVILLE WAS THE FOCUS OF
SCHOOL IN INDIANA.
THAT "TIME" MAGAZINE ARTICLE ON
SHELBYVILLE WAS THE FOCUS OF
DROPOUTS.
THAT "TIME" MAGAZINE ARTICLE ON
THE STORY WAS A WAKEUP CALL.
DROPOUTS.
SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS NOW KEEP
THE STORY WAS A WAKEUP CALL.
CAREFUL TRACK OF EVERY STUDENT
SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS NOW KEEP
AND INTERVENE AT THE FIRST SIGN
CAREFUL TRACK OF EVERY STUDENT
OF TROUBLE.
AND INTERVENE AT THE FIRST SIGN
>> THEY HAD A BIG DATA ROOM
OF TROUBLE.
WHERE THEY HAD THE KIDS CODED BY
>> THEY HAD A BIG DATA ROOM
GREEN, YELLOW, RED, AND FIGURE
WHERE THEY HAD THE KIDS CODED BY
OUT WHAT THEIR NEEDS ARE.
GREEN, YELLOW, RED, AND FIGURE
AND THEY'VE DRIVEN THEIR
OUT WHAT THEIR NEEDS ARE.
GRADUATION RATES UP TO 90% NOW.
AND THEY'VE DRIVEN THEIR
>> BY 2020, AMERICA WILL ONCE
GRADUATION RATES UP TO 90% NOW.
AGAIN HAVE THE HIGHEST
>> BY 2020, AMERICA WILL ONCE
PROPORTION OF COLLEGE GRADUATES
AGAIN HAVE THE HIGHEST
IN THE WORLD.
PROPORTION OF COLLEGE GRADUATES
(APPLAUSE)
IN THE WORLD.
THAT IS A GOAL WE CAN MEET.
(APPLAUSE)
>> Reporter: TO REACH THAT GOAL,
THAT IS A GOAL WE CAN MEET.
EXPERTS SAY THE HIGH SCHOOL
>> Reporter: TO REACH THAT GOAL,
GRADUATION RATE HAS TO JUMP
EXPERTS SAY THE HIGH SCHOOL
SIGNIFICANTLY.
GRADUATION RATE HAS TO JUMP
THAT MAY NOT HAPPEN SOON.
SIGNIFICANTLY.
THAT'S BECAUSE 45 STATES HAVE
THAT MAY NOT HAPPEN SOON.
ADOPTED NEW, MORE CHALLENGING
THAT'S BECAUSE 45 STATES HAVE
ACADEMIC STANDARDS CALLED THE
ADOPTED NEW, MORE CHALLENGING
COMMON CORE.
ACADEMIC STANDARDS CALLED THE
THEY GO INTO EFFECT NEXT SCHOOL
COMMON CORE.
YEAR.
THEY GO INTO EFFECT NEXT SCHOOL
>> THE COMMON CORE IS GOING TO
YEAR.
MAKE THE 9th GRADE HARDER.
>> THE COMMON CORE IS GOING TO
AND ALL THE EVIDENCE SAYS THAT
MAKE THE 9th GRADE HARDER.
THE KIDS ARE UP TO THE... UP TO
AND ALL THE EVIDENCE SAYS THAT
THE TASK IF WE COMBINE MAKING
THE KIDS ARE UP TO THE... UP TO
THE 9th GRADE HARDER WITH
THE TASK IF WE COMBINE MAKING
ADDITIONAL SUPPORTS AND SCHOOL
THE 9th GRADE HARDER WITH
REDESIGN.
ADDITIONAL SUPPORTS AND SCHOOL
>> Reporter: THAT'S A BIG IF.
REDESIGN.
GIVEN CURRENT BUDGET
>> Reporter: THAT'S A BIG IF.
CONSTRAINTS, MANY SCHOOLS MAY
GIVEN CURRENT BUDGET
NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE THAT
CONSTRAINTS, MANY SCHOOLS MAY
SUPPORT.
NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE THAT
AND IF THEY DON'T, THE RISING
SUPPORT.
GRADUATION RATES OF RECENT YEARS
AND IF THEY DON'T, THE RISING
ARE LIKELY TO DECLINE.
GRADUATION RATES OF RECENT YEARS
>> Brown: JOHN'S REPORT WAS PART
ARE LIKELY TO DECLINE.
OF THE "AMERICAN GRADUATE"
>> Brown: JOHN'S REPORT WAS PART
PROJECT, A PUBLIC MEDIA
OF THE "AMERICAN GRADUATE"
INITIATIVE FUNDED BY THE
PROJECT, A PUBLIC MEDIA
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
INITIATIVE FUNDED BY THE
BROADCASTING.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
>> Brown: NEXT TONIGHT, THE
BROADCASTING.
CHANGING NATURE OF POWER AND
>> Brown: NEXT TONIGHT, THE
WIELDING IT.
CHANGING NATURE OF POWER AND
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR BOOK
WIELDING IT.
CONVERSATION.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR BOOK
>> Suarez: IN THE 21st CENTURY,
CONVERSATION.
IS THE POWER THAT COMES WITH
>> Suarez: IN THE 21st CENTURY,
RUNNING THINGS-- GOVNMENERTS,
IS THE POWER THAT COMES WITH
ARMIES, RELIGIONS-- ALL THAT IT
RUNNING THINGS-- GOVNMENERTS,
USED TO BE?
ARMIES, RELIGIONS-- ALL THAT IT
IN "THE END OF POWER," MOISES
USED TO BE?
NAIM OF THE CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT
IN "THE END OF POWER," MOISES
FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE ARGUES
NAIM OF THE CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT
THAT POWER AS WE'VE UNDERSTOOD
FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE ARGUES
IT FOR A LONG TIME IS BOTH
THAT POWER AS WE'VE UNDERSTOOD
HARDER TO USE AND TO KEEP.
IT FOR A LONG TIME IS BOTH
HE JOINS ME NOW.
HARDER TO USE AND TO KEEP.
GOVERNMENTS ARE BIGGER
HE JOINS ME NOW.
THAN THEY'VE EVER BEEN, ARMIES
GOVERNMENTS ARE BIGGER
MORE POWERFUL AND ABOUT TO
THAN THEY'VE EVER BEEN, ARMIES
PROJECT POWER MORE THAN THEY'VE
MORE POWERFUL AND ABOUT TO
EVER BEEN.
PROJECT POWER MORE THAN THEY'VE
BANKS ALSO BIG ENOUGH TO TAKE
EVER BEEN.
DOWN WHOLE CONTINENTS MUCH LESS
BANKS ALSO BIG ENOUGH TO TAKE
COUNTRIES.
DOWN WHOLE CONTINENTS MUCH LESS
HOW COULD POWER BE HARDER TO
COUNTRIES.
USE?
HOW COULD POWER BE HARDER TO
>> IN EACH OF THOSE EXAMPLES YOU
USE?
HAVE SITUATIONS WHERE -- THAT
>> IN EACH OF THOSE EXAMPLES YOU
SHOWS THAT SIZE NO LONGER
HAVE SITUATIONS WHERE -- THAT
MATTERS AS MUCH.
SHOWS THAT SIZE NO LONGER
THINK ABOUT THE TALIBAN AND THE
MATTERS AS MUCH.
ARMY THEY ARE FACING THE
THINK ABOUT THE TALIBAN AND THE
COALITION ARMY OF SOME OF THE
ARMY THEY ARE FACING THE
MOST MODERN SOPHISTICATED
COALITION ARMY OF SOME OF THE
MILITARY EVER ASSEMBLED.
MOST MODERN SOPHISTICATED
WELL, THEY'RE NOT WINNING BUT
MILITARY EVER ASSEMBLED.
THEY'RE DENYING VICTORY TO THIS
WELL, THEY'RE NOT WINNING BUT
VERY LARGE COALITION.
THEY'RE DENYING VICTORY TO THIS
THINK ABOUT THE LARGE COMPANIES
VERY LARGE COALITION.
THAT YOU MENTIONED, ESPECIALLY
THINK ABOUT THE LARGE COMPANIES
THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.
THAT YOU MENTIONED, ESPECIALLY
OF COURSE THEY NOW CONCENTRATE A
THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.
LOT OF ASSET BUS MANY OF THEM
OF COURSE THEY NOW CONCENTRATE A
ARE ON THEIR ATTACK.
LOT OF ASSET BUS MANY OF THEM
MANY OF THEM HAVE BEEN -- SOME
ARE ON THEIR ATTACK.
OF THE C.E.O.s HAVE BEEN FIRED.
MANY OF THEM HAVE BEEN -- SOME
ALL OF THEM ARE ON THEIR
OF THE C.E.O.s HAVE BEEN FIRED.
REGULATORY ATTACK THAT IS GOING
ALL OF THEM ARE ON THEIR
TO CONSTRAIN EVEN MORE WHAT THEY
REGULATORY ATTACK THAT IS GOING
CAN DO.
TO CONSTRAIN EVEN MORE WHAT THEY
SO FOR EACH ONE OF THE EXAMPLES
CAN DO.
AND THE GOVERNMENTS THINK ABOUT
SO FOR EACH ONE OF THE EXAMPLES
THE BIG GOVERNMENTS THAT OF
AND THE GOVERNMENTS THINK ABOUT
COSE TURHEY'RE LARGER BUT
THE BIG GOVERNMENTS THAT OF
THEY'RE ALSO MORE CONSTRAINED.
COSE TURHEY'RE LARGER BUT
THEY HAVE A LONG LIST OF ACTORS,
THEY'RE ALSO MORE CONSTRAINED.
THEY ARE LIKE GULLIVERS, JUST
THEY HAVE A LONG LIST OF ACTORS,
TIED DOWN BY THE LILLIPUTIANS.
THEY ARE LIKE GULLIVERS, JUST
>> SO IS IT REALLY THAT POWER IS
TIED DOWN BY THE LILLIPUTIANS.
NOT AS EASY TO KEEP AND TO USE
>> SO IS IT REALLY THAT POWER IS
OR THAT IT DISTRIBUTED IN MORE
NOT AS EASY TO KEEP AND TO USE
PLACES AND MOST PEOPLE HAVE IT?
OR THAT IT DISTRIBUTED IN MORE
>> OF COURSE.
PLACES AND MOST PEOPLE HAVE IT?
AND IT'S BOTH.
>> OF COURSE.
THE END RESULT IS IT'S EASIER TO
AND IT'S BOTH.
ACQUIRE BUT AS YOU SAID IN THE
THE END RESULT IS IT'S EASIER TO
INTRODUCTION, MUCH HARDER TO USE
ACQUIRE BUT AS YOU SAID IN THE
AND MORE FLEETING.
INTRODUCTION, MUCH HARDER TO USE
>> Suarez: WE HAVE SEEN THE
AND MORE FLEETING.
INSTITUTION OF A NEW POPE BEING
>> Suarez: WE HAVE SEEN THE
ELECTED AND WE HAVE SEEN THIS
INSTITUTION OF A NEW POPE BEING
INSTITUTION THAT HUNDREDS OF
ELECTED AND WE HAVE SEEN THIS
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE A VITAL
INSTITUTION THAT HUNDREDS OF
INTEREST IN.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE A VITAL
IS THE POPE A LESS POWER.
INTEREST IN.
PERSON THAN HE'D BEEN IN THE
IS THE POPE A LESS POWER.
19th CENTURY?
PERSON THAN HE'D BEEN IN THE
>> THINK ABOUT THE PROCESS OF
19th CENTURY?
SELECTING THIS NEW POPE AND
>> THINK ABOUT THE PROCESS OF
THINK ABOUT THE COALITIONS THAT
SELECTING THIS NEW POPE AND
WERE FORMING, HOW DIFFERENT
THINK ABOUT THE COALITIONS THAT
ISSUES, DIFFERENT REGIONS,
WERE FORMING, HOW DIFFERENT
DIFFERENT FACTORS PLAYED INTO
ISSUES, DIFFERENT REGIONS,
THE SELECTION OF THIS NEW POPE
DIFFERENT FACTORS PLAYED INTO
AND THINK ABOUT HOW IN PLACES
THE SELECTION OF THIS NEW POPE
LIKE AFRICA, LIKE LATIN AMERICA
AND THINK ABOUT HOW IN PLACES
THE VATICAN IS LOSING MARKET
LIKE AFRICA, LIKE LATIN AMERICA
SHARE SO TO SPEAK.
THE VATICAN IS LOSING MARKET
THERE ARE MORE AND MORE
SHARE SO TO SPEAK.
CONTENDERS AND RIVALS AND NEW
THERE ARE MORE AND MORE
TYPES OF RELIGIONS AND PENT
CONTENDERS AND RIVALS AND NEW
CONTINUEALISTS AND ALL KIND OF
TYPES OF RELIGIONS AND PENT
PROTESTANT CHURCHES.
CONTINUEALISTS AND ALL KIND OF
BRAZIL, IN 1990, THE CENSUS SAID
PROTESTANT CHURCHES.
THAT 90% OF BRAZILIANS CALLED
BRAZIL, IN 1990, THE CENSUS SAID
THEMSELVES CATHOLICS.
THAT 90% OF BRAZILIANS CALLED
NOW 65%.
THEMSELVES CATHOLICS.
IN MANY COUNTRIES IN LATIN
NOW 65%.
AMERICA NOW C.A.T. KHA THOL
IN MANY COUNTRIES IN LATIN
SCHISM IS NOT THE MAIN RELIGION.
AMERICA NOW C.A.T. KHA THOL
>> Suarez: YOU'VE MENTIONED THAT
SCHISM IS NOT THE MAIN RELIGION.
POWER IS MORE ATTENUATED AND IN
>> Suarez: YOU'VE MENTIONED THAT
BE T BOOK YOU DESCRIBE THE WAYS
POWER IS MORE ATTENUATED AND IN
THAT THERE ARE MORE CHECKS AND
BE T BOOK YOU DESCRIBE THE WAYS
BALANCES AT PLAY THAN EVEN
THAT THERE ARE MORE CHECKS AND
PEOPLE WE PERCEIVE AS BEING VERY
BALANCES AT PLAY THAN EVEN
POWERFUL FIND IT MORE DIFFICULT
PEOPLE WE PERCEIVE AS BEING VERY
TO USE THAT POWER.
POWERFUL FIND IT MORE DIFFICULT
THAT HAS CREATED A MORE STABLE
TO USE THAT POWER.
AND IN SOME WAYS SAFER WORLD?
THAT HAS CREATED A MORE STABLE
>> WELL, THERE'S A LOT TO
AND IN SOME WAYS SAFER WORLD?
WELCOME.
>> WELL, THERE'S A LOT TO
A LOT TO CELEBRATE IN THIS TREND
WELCOME.
WHERE AUTOCRATS AND MONOPOLIES
A LOT TO CELEBRATE IN THIS TREND
AND PEOPLE WHO CONCENTRATE A LOT
WHERE AUTOCRATS AND MONOPOLIES
OF POWER HAVE A HARDER TIME
AND PEOPLE WHO CONCENTRATE A LOT
RETAINING, THEY'RE LESS SECURE
OF POWER HAVE A HARDER TIME
IN THE POWER SO THERE'S A LOT OF
RETAINING, THEY'RE LESS SECURE
GOOD THINGS HAPPENING THERE BUT
IN THE POWER SO THERE'S A LOT OF
THERE IS ALSO DOWN SIDE.
GOOD THINGS HAPPENING THERE BUT
ESPECIALLY IN GOVERNMENT IN
THERE IS ALSO DOWN SIDE.
SURROUNDED BY CONSTRAINTS WHAT
ESPECIALLY IN GOVERNMENT IN
POLITICAL SCIENTISTS CALLED
SURROUNDED BY CONSTRAINTS WHAT
VITOCRACIES MEANING THAT THEY
POLITICAL SCIENTISTS CALLED
ARE FULL OF SMALL CENTERS OF
VITOCRACIES MEANING THAT THEY
POWER, EACH ONE HAS A LITTLE BIT
ARE FULL OF SMALL CENTERS OF
OF POWER TO STOP AND BLOCK AND
POWER, EACH ONE HAS A LITTLE BIT
VETO THE FISH TICHS OF ORDER BUT
OF POWER TO STOP AND BLOCK AND
NO ONE HAS ENOUGH POWER TO PUSH
VETO THE FISH TICHS OF ORDER BUT
THOUGHR AN AGENDA, A POLICY AND
NO ONE HAS ENOUGH POWER TO PUSH
ECLOOK AT THE SQESER IN
THOUGHR AN AGENDA, A POLICY AND
THE UNITED STATES AND HOW
ECLOOK AT THE SQESER IN
DIFFICULT IT HAS BECOME TO JUST
THE UNITED STATES AND HOW
MAKE FUNDAMENTAL DECISIONS ABOUT
DIFFICULT IT HAS BECOME TO JUST
HOW TO TAX AND SPEND.
MAKE FUNDAMENTAL DECISIONS ABOUT
LOOK AROUND THE WORLD AND THE
HOW TO TAX AND SPEND.
KINDS OF COALITIONS, VERY
LOOK AROUND THE WORLD AND THE
STRANGE, POLITICAL COALITIONS
KINDS OF COALITIONS, VERY
NEED TO BE ASSEMBLED THAT ARE
STRANGE, POLITICAL COALITIONS
FRACTURED THAT ARE HARD TO GET
NEED TO BE ASSEMBLED THAT ARE
TOGETHER AND HAVE A HARD TIME
FRACTURED THAT ARE HARD TO GET
MAKING DECISIONS WITHOUT
TOGETHER AND HAVE A HARD TIME
DILUTING THEM, WITHOUT
MAKING DECISIONS WITHOUT
POSTPONING THEM AND WITHOUT
DILUTING THEM, WITHOUT
REALLY GIVING THEM THE CONTENT
POSTPONING THEM AND WITHOUT
THAT IS NEEDED TO MAKE A DENT ON
REALLY GIVING THEM THE CONTENT
THE PROGRESS THEY'RE TRYING TO
THAT IS NEEDED TO MAKE A DENT ON
ADDRESS.
THE PROGRESS THEY'RE TRYING TO
>> Suarez: SURE AS YOU SAY THE
ADDRESS.
POWER OF NO IS QUITE POE
>> Suarez: SURE AS YOU SAY THE
INNOCENT THE 21st CENTURY BUT
POWER OF NO IS QUITE POE
CAN WE FLIP THAT AND MAYBE THINK
INNOCENT THE 21st CENTURY BUT
OF IT AS A MORE DEMOCRATIC
CAN WE FLIP THAT AND MAYBE THINK
IDEAL?
OF IT AS A MORE DEMOCRATIC
THE IDEA THAT THE AVERAGE PERSON
IDEAL?
IN THE WORLD IS EXPERIENCING NEW
THE IDEA THAT THE AVERAGE PERSON
POWER BY BEING ABLE TO REFUSE TO
IN THE WORLD IS EXPERIENCING NEW
LISTEN TO THE PEOPLE THAT THEY
POWER BY BEING ABLE TO REFUSE TO
USED TO LISTEN TO OR BE
LISTEN TO THE PEOPLE THAT THEY
UNDERSTOOD TO HAVE TO LISTEN TO.
USED TO LISTEN TO OR BE
>> THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT THE
UNDERSTOOD TO HAVE TO LISTEN TO.
TRENDS HAVE EMPOWERED
>> THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT THE
INDIVIDUALS, HAVE GIVEN
TRENDS HAVE EMPOWERED
INDIVIDUALS MORE CHOICE, MORE
INDIVIDUALS, HAVE GIVEN
OPPORTUNITY, MORE OPTIONS.
INDIVIDUALS MORE CHOICE, MORE
THERE'S NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT BUT
OPPORTUNITY, MORE OPTIONS.
THERE IS ANOTHER SIDE TO IT IN
THERE'S NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT BUT
WHICH NO ONE DECIDES.
THERE IS ANOTHER SIDE TO IT IN
IN WHICH EVERYONE IS EMPOWERED,
WHICH NO ONE DECIDES.
EVERYONE HAS A LITTLE BIT OF
IN WHICH EVERYONE IS EMPOWERED,
POWER BUT THERE IS NO ONE WHO
EVERYONE HAS A LITTLE BIT OF
ORGANIZES THE GAME, THERE'S NO
POWER BUT THERE IS NO ONE WHO
ONE THAT PROVIDES DIRECTIONS AND
ORGANIZES THE GAME, THERE'S NO
MAKES THE COLLECTIVE DECISIONS
ONE THAT PROVIDES DIRECTIONS AND
THAT WE NEED TO LIVE IN SOCIETY.
MAKES THE COLLECTIVE DECISIONS
>> Suarez: SO ARE WE ON OUR WAY?
THAT WE NEED TO LIVE IN SOCIETY.
IF THAT IS NOT A VERY GOOD
>> Suarez: SO ARE WE ON OUR WAY?
RECIPE FOR RUNNING A WORLD, ARE
IF THAT IS NOT A VERY GOOD
WE ON OUR TRY A MORE
RECIPE FOR RUNNING A WORLD, ARE
COLLABORATIVE PLANET?
WE ON OUR TRY A MORE
WILL STAKEHOLDERS DECIDE THAT,
COLLABORATIVE PLANET?
YES, THERE IS SOME POWER IN NO
WILL STAKEHOLDERS DECIDE THAT,
BUT MAYBE THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
YES, THERE IS SOME POWER IN NO
MORE POWER IN WORKING TOGETHER
BUT MAYBE THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
>> I HOPE SO, I HOPE SO.
MORE POWER IN WORKING TOGETHER
I THINK A LOT OF POLICIES ARE
>> I HOPE SO, I HOPE SO.
CHOKING IN CHECKS AND BALANCES.
I THINK A LOT OF POLICIES ARE
THERE ARE TOO MANY CONSTRAINTS
CHOKING IN CHECKS AND BALANCES.
THAT DON'T LET GOVERNMENTS
THERE ARE TOO MANY CONSTRAINTS
GOVERN.
THAT DON'T LET GOVERNMENTS
I'M NOT SURE WE NEED TO LET
GOVERN.
GOVERNMENTS BECOME MORE
I'M NOT SURE WE NEED TO LET
AUTOCRATIC AND GIVE BLIND CHECKS
GOVERNMENTS BECOME MORE
TO GOVERNMENT AND THEY NEED TO
AUTOCRATIC AND GIVE BLIND CHECKS
BE CONSTRAINED AND
TO GOVERNMENT AND THEY NEED TO
ACCOUNTABILITY IS A VERY
BE CONSTRAINED AND
IMPORTANT FACET OF DEMOCRACY BUT
ACCOUNTABILITY IS A VERY
THEY NEED TO HAVE SOME POWER TO
IMPORTANT FACET OF DEMOCRACY BUT
RUN THINGS AND THAT IS WHERE WE
THEY NEED TO HAVE SOME POWER TO
NEED TO MOVE TOWARDS AND THAT
RUN THINGS AND THAT IS WHERE WE
SCRUTINIZING AND UNDERSTANDING
NEED TO MOVE TOWARDS AND THAT
WHAT ARE THE CHECKS AND BALANCES
SCRUTINIZING AND UNDERSTANDING
THAT ARE NOW IN PLACE THAT ARE
WHAT ARE THE CHECKS AND BALANCES
COUNTERPRODUCT SIEVE A VERY
THAT ARE NOW IN PLACE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT EXERCISE.
COUNTERPRODUCT SIEVE A VERY
>> Brown: I WANT TO CONTINUE OUR
IMPORTANT EXERCISE.
CONVERSATION ON LINE BUT MOISES
>> Brown: I WANT TO CONTINUE OUR
NAIM THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
CONVERSATION ON LINE BUT MOISES
>> THANK YOU, RAY.
RESEARCH TRIAL
WITH NEWBORN BABIES THAT
ALLEGEDLY DID NOT PROVIDE
ADEQUATE DISCLOSURE TO PARENTS.
THE TRIAL INVOLVED 1,300 INFANTS
AT 23 HOSPITALS WHO WERE BORN
EXTREMELY PREMATURELY BETWEEN
2004 AND 2009.
DOCTORS WERE TRYING TO BETTER
DETERMINE THE RIGHT AMOUNT OF
SUPPLEMENTAL OXYGEN THEY NEED TO
GIVE TO PREEMIES.
IF THE OXYGEN LEVEL IS TOO LOW,
BABIES CAN DIE.
BUT IF THE RATE IS TOO HIGH, IT
CAN LEAD TO EYE DISEASE AND
BLINDNESS.
IN THE TRIAL, HALF OF THE BABIES
WERE ASSIGNED TO A LOWER DOSE,
HALF TO A HIGHER AMOUNT.
BUT LAST MONTH, THE FEDERAL
OFFICE OF HUMAN RESEARCH
PROTECTIONS CONCLUDED THERE WAS
NOT APPROPRIATE INFORMED
CONSENT.
IN A LETTER TO THE CENTERS, IT
SAID HOSPITALS FAILED TO:
THE NON-PROFIT WATCHDOG GROUP
PUBLIC CITIZEN BROUGHT THAT
LETTER TO LIGHT THIS WEEK.
WE GET MORE NOW WITH DAVID BROWN
OF THE "WASHINGTON POST."
DAVID BROWN, WELCOME TO THE
PROGRAM.
EXPLAIN IN SHORT HAND WHAT WAS
THIS STUDY DESIGNED TO DO?
>> WELL, IT WAS DESIGNED TO
ANSWER A QUESTION THAT HAS BEEN
UNANSWERED AND THAT PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN TRYING TO ANSWER SINCE THE
1950s WHEN IT WAS DISCOVERED
THAT OXYGEN AT HIGH
CONCENTRATION GIVEN TO PREMATURE
INFANTS CAN CAUSE SERIOUS EYE
DAMAGE AND LEAD TO BLINDNESS.
THE PROBLEM WAS THAT WHEN OXYGEN
WAS LIMITED TO MANY OF THESE
PREMATURE INFANTS THEIR BRAIN
DIDN'T GET ENOUGH OXYGEN TO
DEVELOP, MANY SEEMED TO DEVELOP
RETARDATION, SOME OF THEM DIED.
SO THERE HAS BEEN A REAL PROBLEM
FOR LITERALLY HALF A CENTURY TO
DETERMINE WHAT THE RIGHT AMOUNT
OF OXYGEN IS TO SORT OF BALANCE
THESE TWO BAD OUTCOMES-- ON THE
ONE HAND DEATH AND BRAIN DAMAGE
AND ON THE OTHER HAND BLINDNESS.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT WAS THE
OUTCOME OF THIS STUDY?
>> WELL, THIS STUDY SHOWED THAT
AS PREVIOUS STUDIES HAD HINTED
IF YOU LIMIT THE OXYGEN THAT
PREMATURE INFANTS ARE GETTING--
THIS IS ALL SUPPLEMENTARY OXYGEN
THIS IS MORE OXYGEN THAN YOU GET
FROM BREATHING AIR-- BUT IF YOU
KEEP IT AT THE LOWER END OF WHAT
WAS THE STANDARD OF CARE THEN
YOU REDUCE THE CHANCES OF THEM
BECOMING BLIND BUT YOU SLIGHTLY
INCREASE THE CHANCE OF THEM
DYING.
>> Woodruff: AND ALONG THE WAY
TO THAT OUTCOME, THOUGH, THERE
ARE NOW QUESTIONS BEING RAISED
ABOUT WHETHER PARENTS WERE
ADEQUATELY NOTIFIED ABOUT THE
RISKS.
WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT WHAT PARENTS
WERE TOLD?
>> WELL, PARENTS WERE HOLD THAT
THE CURRENT STANDARD OF CARE IS
TO KEEP THE AMOUNT OF OXYGEN AS
MEASURED BY SATURATION OF
HEMOGLOBE BIN IN A RANGE BETWEEN
85% AND 90%.
AND THAT THIS WAS STANDARD OF
CARE AND THAT ALL THE BABIES
WERE GOING TO GET OXYGEN THAT
KEPT THEIR BLOOD AT THAT -- IN
THAT RANGE.
WHAT WASN'T ADEQUATELY DESCRIBED
IS THAT THERE WAS GOING TO BE AN
ATTEMPT TO ESSENTIALLY -- WELL,
TO DEFINITELY CREATE TWO GROUPS,
ONE HALF OF THE BABIES WOULD BE
RANDOMLY ASSIGNED TO GET OXYGEN
AT THE LOW END OF THE NORMAL
RANGE AND THE OTHERS WERE
RANDOMLY ASSIGNED TO GET OXYGEN
AT THE HIGH END.
AND THE IDEA WAS TO SEE IF ONE
OF THESE TWO SUBRANGES WAS
BETTER THAN THE OTHER.
AND THE FACT THAT AT ONE OF THEM
THERE MIGHT BE A HIGHER RISK OF
BLINDNESS AND AT THE OTHER END A
HIGHER RISK OF DEATH THAT REALLY
WASN'T LAID OUT IN DETAIL.
>> Woodruff: NOW THERE'S A
DISPUTE.
THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA AT
BIRMINGHAM WHICH WAS THE LEAD
HOSPITAL OUT OF, I GUESS, 23
MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS THAT WERE
ENGAGED IN THIS STUDY, THEY ARE
SAYING THAT THROUGHOUT THIS
TRIAL THEY -- THAT PHYSICIANS
CONFORMED TO WHAT'S CALLED THE
STANDARD OF CARE BUT PUBLIC
CITIZENS, THE CRITICISM IS, THAT
THEY DID NOT PROVIDE -- THEY DID
NOT STAY WITHIN THE BAND OF
SO-CALLED STANDARD OF CARE.
HOW IS THAT GOING TO BE
RESOLVED?
>> WELL, THEY DID STAY WITHIN
THE BAND OF STANDARD OF CARE AS
MEASURED BY THESE TWO -- THIS
RANGE OF HEMOGLOBIN SATURATION,
NAMELY 5% TO 95%.
BABIES WHO ARE NOT IN A TRIAL
LIKE THIS, THE PHYSICIAN
CONFERRING WITH THE PARENTS
USUALLY DECIDES SOME PLACE WHERE
IN THAT RANGE THE DOCTOR AND THE
PARENTS THINK MIGHT BE BEST.
AND ACTUALLY IT'S SOMEWHAT HARD
TO KEEP INFANTS FROM -- AT ONE
PERCENTAGE OF SATURATION.
THEY TEND TO BOUNCE AROUND.
BUT THE -- EVEN THOUGH THAT IS
THE STANDARD BAND OF CARE THERE
IS NOT ENOUGH KNOWLEDGE TO KNOW
WHAT IS THE SWEET SPOT IN THAT
-- IN THAT RANGE OF 85% TO 95%
AND THIS TRIAL WAS TRYING TO
FIND THAT SWEET SPOT.
THE PEOPLE WHO RAN IT SAY
EVERYONE WAS IN THE STANDARD OF
CARE AND THERE WAS ACTUALLY SOME
EVIDENCE THAT THE LOWER END WAS
NOT ONLY PROTECTED AGAINST
BLINDNESS BUT MIGHT ACTUALLY
INCREASE THESE T SURVIVAL OF
THESE KIDS.
IT JUST DIDN'T GO INTO THE WHOLE
BACK STORY.
HOW IT WILL BE RESOLVED IS --
REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
>> Woodruff: WELL, THAT'S WHAT I
WANTED TO ASK YOU.
ATTEMPTS NOW BEING MADE TO REACH
OUT TO THE PARENTS OF THESE
1,300 INFANTS.
OF COURSE, SOME OF THEM DID DIE.
SOME OF THEM ENDED UP WITH
BLINDNESS OR OTHER VISION
ISSUES.
WHAT'S BEING DONE RIGHT NOW TO
REACH OUT TO THOSE FAMILIES
>> WELL, IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT
BABIES WERE GOING TO DIE AND
BABIES WERE GOING TO GO BLIND
WHETHER THIS TRIAL WAS RUN OR
NOT BECAUSE THAT IS JUST THE
HAZARDS OF EXTREME PREMATURITY
AND OXYGEN THERAPY.
AT THE MOMENT, THIS OFFICE,
O.H.R.P., IS NEGOTIATING WITH
THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA AT
BIRMINGHAM AS TO WHAT THEY'RE
GOING TO DO.
THEY'RE BASICALLY GOING TO BE
TOLD DO A BETTER JOB NEXT TIME
WITH INFORMED CONSENT BUT
WHETHER THIS IS GOING TO INVOLVE
A FORMAL APOLOGY TO THE PARENTS
HASN'T BEEN DECIDED.
THE PEOPLE WHO'VE RUN THE TRIAL
DON'T THINK THEY DID ANYTHING
WRONG.
THEY THINK THAT THEY HAD
ADEQUATE EXPLANATION OF THE
TRIAL AND TRULY INFORMED
CONSENT.
BUT THE O.H.R.P. OFFERS SAYS
THEY DIDN'T AND IT'S NOW A
MATTER OF NEGOTIATION WHAT THEY
TELL THE PARENTS.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS THE OFFICE
OF HUMAN RESEARCH PROTECTIONS
THAT FALLS UNDER THE DEPARTMENT
OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
SO JUST QUICKLY, DAVID BROWN,
WHO OR WHAT IS TO DETERMINE NOW
WHETHER THERE WAS LIABILITY IN
ALL THIS?
>> WELL, OF COURSE, THAT'S A BIG
QUESTION THAT THE OFFICE OF
HUMAN RESEARCH PROTECTIONS
DOESN'T WANT TO THE ADDRESS.
IN FACT, I ASKED THEM ABOUT THAT
TODAY.
IF THERE IS AN APOLOGY AND THAT
CAN BE INTERPRETED BY A LAWYER
AS SOME STATEMENT OF CULPABILITY
AND LIABILITY THERE PROBABLY
WILL BE LAWSUITS.
BUT IT'S CLEAR THAT BLINDNESS
AND DEATH WERE GOING TO HAPPEN
REGARDLESS OF THE STUDY AND IT
MAY BE DIFFICULT TO PINPOINT
WHICH BABIES ACTUALLY HAD A BAD
OUTCOME BECAUSE OF THE STUDY.
>> Woodruff: DAVID BROWN,
REPORTER FOR THE "WASHINGTON
POST."
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, AN
AWARD THAT'S COMING 60 YEARS
AFTER THE FACT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA BESTOWED THE
MEDAL OF HONOR ON A CATHOLIC
PRIEST WHO DIED IN A KOREAN WAR
P.O.W. CAMP.
FATHER EMIL KAPAUN NEVER FIRED A
BULLET IN THE CONFLICT OR EVEN
CARRIED A WEAPON.
INSTEAD, HE TOOK CARE OF WOUNDED
SOLDIERS-- OFTEN AT THE EXPENSE
OF HIS OWN SAFETY AND HEALTH--
ON THE BATTLEFIELD AND LATER AT
A CHINESE P.O.W. CAMP WHERE HE
WOULD STEAL FOOD TO GIVE TO
OTHER PRISONERS.
THOSE WHO CAME HOME FROM THE
CAMP NEVER STOPPED PRAISING HIS
ACTIONS, AND THAT FINALLY PAID
OFF.
AFTER A MILITARY INVESTIGATION
AND SOME LEGISLATION, THEIR
HOPES OF A MEDAL FOR FATHER
THPAUN BECAME A REALITY IS
AFTERNOON.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PRESENTED THE
AWARD TO KAPAUN'S NEPHEW IN A
CEREMONY IN THE EAST ROOM OF THE
WHITE HOUSE.
>> FATHER KAPAUN HAS BEEN CALLED
A SHEPHERD IN COMBAT BOOTS.
HIS FELLOW SOLDIERS WHO FELT HIS
GRACE AND HIS MERCY CALLED HIM A
SAINT, A BLESSING FROM GOD.
TODAY, WE BESTOW ANOTHER TITLE
ON HIM: RECIPIENT OF OUR
NATION'S HIGHEST MILITARY
DECLARATION, THE MEDAL OF HONOR.
IN THE CHAOS, DODGING BULLETS
AND EXPLOSIONS, FATHER KAPAUN
RACED BETWEEN FOXHOLES, OUT PAST
THE FRONTLINES AND INTO NO-MAN'S
LAND, DRAGGING THE WOUNDED TO
SAFETY.
WHEN HIS COMMANDERS ORDERED AN
EVACUATION, HE CHOSE TO STAY,
GATHERING THE INJURED, TENDING
TO THEIR WOUNDS.
WHEN THE ENEMY BROKE THROUGH AND
THE COMBAT WAS HAND TO HAND, HE
CARRIED ON, COMFORTING THE
INJURED AND THE DYING, OFFERING
SOME MEASURE OF PEACE AS THEY
LEFT THIS EARTH.
WHEN ENEMY FORCES BORE DOWN, IT
SEEMED LIKE THE END THAT THESE
WOUNDED AMERICANS-- MORE THAN A
DOZEN OF THEM-- WOULD BE GUNNED
DOWN.
BUT FATHER KAPAUN SPOTTED A
WOUNDED CHINESE OFFICER.
HE PLEADED WITH THIS CHINESE
OFFICER AND CONVINCED HIM TO
CALL OUT TO HIS FELLOW CHINESE.
THE SHOOTING STOPPED AND THEY
NEGOTIATED A SAFE SURRENDER,
SAVING THOSE AMERICAN LIVES.
THEN, AS FATHER KAPAUN WAS BEING
LED AWAY, HE SAW ANOTHER
AMERICAN, WOUNDED AND UNABLE TO
WALK, LAYING IN A DITCH
DEFENSELESS.
AN ENEMY SOLDIER WAS STANDING
OVER HIM, RIFLE AIMED AT HIS
HEAD READY TO SHOOT.
FATHER KAPAUN MARCHED OVER AND
PUSHED THE ENEMY SOLDIER ASIDE.
AND THEN, AS THE SOLDIER WATCHED
STUNNED, FATHER KAPAUN CARRIED
THAT WOUNDED AMERICAN AWAY.
THIS IS THE VALOR WE HONOR
TODAY, AN AMERICAN SOLDIER WHO
DIDN'T FIRE A GUN BUT WHO
WIELDED THE MIGHTIEST WEAPON OF
ALL: A LOVE FOR HIS BROTHERS SO
PURE THAT HE WAS WILLING TO DIE
SO THAT THEY MIGHT LIVE.
IN THE CAMPS THAT WINTER, DEEP
IN THE VALLEY, MEN COULD FREEZE
TO DEATH IN THEIR SLEEP.
FATHER KAPAUN OFFERED THEM HIS
OWN CLOTHES.
THEIR BODIES WERE RAVAGED BY
DYSENTERY; HE POUNDED METAL INTO
POTS AND BOILED CLEAN WATER.
THEY LIVED IN FILTH; HE WASHED
THEIR CLOTHES AND HE CLEANSED
THEIR WOUNDS.
THE GUARDS RIDICULED HIS
DEVOTION TO HIS SAVIOR AND THE
ALMIGHTY.
THEY TOOK HIS CLOTHES AND MAKE
HIM STAND IN THE FREEZING COLD.
AND YET, HE NEVER LOST HIS
FAITH.
IF ANYTHING, IT ONLY GREW
STRONGER.
FATHER KAPAUN'S LIFE I THINK IS
A TESTIMONY TO THE HUMAN SPIRIT,
THE POWER OF FAITH, AND REMINDS
US OF THE GOOD THAT WE CAN DO
EACH AND EVERY DAY REGARDLESS OF
THE MOST DIFFICULT OF
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA,
AWARDING THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO
FATHER EMIL KAPAUN MORE THAN 60
YEARS AFTER HIS DEATH AS A
PRISONER IN THE KOREAN WAR.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE FULL U.S. SENATE OFFICIALLY
TOOK UP GUN CONTROL AFTER
SUPPORTERS SWEPT ASIDE EFFORTS
BY SOME REPUBLICANS TO BLOCK
DEBATE.
A SPRING STORM SYSTEM UNLEASHED
TORNADOES IN SEVERAL STATES,
KILLING AT LEAST ONE PERSON IN
MISSISSIPPI.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED NORTH
KOREA TO END ITS "BELLIGERENT
APPROACH."
MEANWHILE, A NEW INTELLIGENCE
REPORT FOUND THAT IT'S LIKELY
THE NORTH CAN MOUNT NUCLEAR
WARHEADS ON MISSILES.
>> Brown: ARE THE PERSONAL
CHOICES WE MAKE CONTRIBUTING TO
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY IN THE U.S.?
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE ON OUR
ONLINE COVERAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: ECONOMIC
HISTORIAN JERRY MULLER ARGUES
THAT YOUR FINANCIAL FATE COULD
BE DETERMINED BY YOUR MATE AND
YOUR FAMILY.
READ HIS ARGUMENT ON "MAKING
SENSE."
PLUS, SINGLES WHO PREFER TO DATE
WITHIN THEIR OWN RELIGION ARE
CAPITALIZING ON NICHE ONLINE
COMMUNITIES TO FIND LOVE.
AND ON OUR HEALTH PAGE, NEW DATA
ON GLOBAL OBESITY RATES OFFER A
GLIMMER OF HOPE.
FIND A COMPARISON BETWEEN THE
U.S. AND OTHER NATIONS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.